<!--
.. title: Sponsoring
.. slug: sponsoring
.. date: 2025-03-30 12:00:00 UTC-08:00
.. tags: Management
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. status:
-->

<img style="float:right" class="postimage" src="/f/sponsor.png" alt="One person helping another while at being graded" width=40%>

Sponsorship is using your position and influence to help someone get ahead.
It's similar in many ways to mentorship which I [wrote about](/posts/mentoring)
last year. But sponsorship is a bit tricker. Most people understand mentorship
and have good feelings about it. Sponsorship is a bit less familiar and might
even feel a bit unseemly &mdash; at least it used to feel that way to me.

Although I'd heard the concept before, a talk [Carla Harris][] gave at Google in
2022 made an impression on me and brought it to the forefront. (She has a [2019
TED Talk][vid] that hits a lot of the same points). She spoke about the value of
sponsorship, both on the receiving end early in her career and now as a sponsor
herself. More than just her description, what I most appreciated was her candor.
It gave me a permission structure to use this concept myself. I started using it
with junior engineers when thinking about their careers; I thought about it
myself when debugging how some decision played out. It also helped me to think
of it less judgmentally. Now I see it as being thoughtful and pragmatic about
how decisions are made.

So what it it? Sponsoring is similar to mentoring in that it's an investment in
someone, but the mechanism is different. Mentoring is a commitment to
problem-solve issues as they come up, teach skills, and serve as a sounding
board, amongst other things. Sponsoring is more strategic. The sponsor is
committing to understand the sponsored's goals and strengths, and (here's the
important part) help them get ahead. The time commitment isn't as large, but the
_actual commitment_ is greater. Assuming they see eye-to-eye, the sponsor
commits to _putting their reputation on the line_ to help the their person
achieve their goals. Some examples would be vouching for the sponsored during a
staffing conversations or seeking out and advocating for them when opportunities
comes up.

In some ways, sponsorship acknowledges and even co-opts the "you have to know
somebody" way that the world actually works. Underrepresented groups can benefit
from sponsorship as a way to wedge into existing power structures. If that
describes you, consider asking for someone to explicitly sponsor you; if you're
in a traditionally privileged group, consider sponsoring someone who isn't so
much.  My Google peer [Rachel][] observed: "women are often over-mentored and
under-sponsored."

### Maybe You're Going Up For Promotion

With this in mind, let's apply this to promotions.

Try as we might to bring rigor and de-bias these decisions, they are complicated
and are made by real-world humans. Organizations rely on their senior people to
bring their experience, knowledge, and judgment to bear.

Consider how the promotion decision will be made for your case. One key question
is **who'll be in the room**? This isn't just who is invited and who will
attend, but more who will be **influential** in the discussion and decision
making process, and **for what** kinds of questions. Not everyone has an equal
voice.

Say you're an engineer going up for promotion to senior engineer. Then likely a
senior tech lead (not necessarily _your_ tech lead!) will be asked to speak to
the quality of your work (e.g. good code, considered alternatives,
future-proofing). A senior manager will likely be asked to assess how well you
worked with others and made good decisions. And these are just two of the
factors &mdash; there will be many others depending on your role and level. You
need to work down the rubric and think through who'll be asked to attest to each
area as it comes up. Who will be asked to speak to concerns when they're raised
("was that _really_ that hard?")?

Sometimes you might know who the key person will be, but often you won't. Enlist
your manager or other senior leaders to think it through with you. Game plan the
decision out.

And then assess their level of support. This may be something you can do
yourself (if you have a relationship already) or maybe you'll need your
manager's help. But somehow you need to ask them, as candidly as you can, "If
asked about X, what will you say?" It can sometimes be hard to get an honest
answer, so you may need to push a little. Reassure them you'd much rather know
now if you have their support or not and you're not going to hold it against
them.

If you don't have their support yet, that's OK. Think about work you can do
to change that over time.

### Day-To-Day Decisions

Not all decisions are as high-stakes as promotions. Leaders make decisions all
the time, like whom to trust to lead a project or run a meeting. I like to think
about these small-but-important decisions too in the context of sponsorship. Is
your manager your sponsor? What about your TL?

_Thanks to Josh Loftus, Maren Stever, Jane Manning, and Rachel Grey for their
reviews._

[Carla Harris]: https://www.carlaspearls.com/
[vid]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gpE_W50OTUc
[Rachel]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachel-grey-b69319/