<!-- 
.. title: My Next Job
.. slug: job-15
.. date: 2015-05-10 09:30 UTC-07:00
.. tags: Tech, Life
.. type: text
-->

<img style="float:right" class="postimage" src="/f/snowflake.png"
alt="Snowflake" width=25%>

I left [my last job][wf] a few weeks back and it's high time to look for a new
one. If you're working on something interesting and think I could help, [let
me know][email]! 

It's nice to not have a day job while looking for another. I was lucky enough
to do this [once before in 2012][sab] which turned out great. I learned then
that time and flexibility lets you talk to lots of friends and learn about a
breadth of projects. I found a fun project in a new domain ([online
education][ed]), something I doubt I'd have found the normal way.

Maybe I'll get lucky again.

Enough small talk, what am I looking for?

I'm looking for some flavor of **line manager**. I'm a good senior manager and
code-every-day engineer; but I'm exceptional leading a team and running a
project. That's what line managers do: lead engineers, not other managers or
departments or matrix-anything. Also, if you're some kind of executive then
coding is an indulgence, and I'd rather it just be part of my job. Mostly I'm
talking to **small companies**, say 10-100 people (fun-size).

I want to **build on my experience**. I know infrastructure and cloud, SaaS
and enterprise, and online education. I'm probably not the best person for
your storage, security, gaming, e-commerce, or cryptocurrency company. I want
to stay working on **Internet technology**. I like the (micro)services model.
For my own projects I choose Python, JavaScript (frontend and backend), and
Java. I know web operations, especially the [Amazon stack][aws].

**Location** is important: I don't want to do a daily Menlo Park to San
Francisco round-trip. I'd like to **work with friends** if possible. And I
want to do something **worthwhile**.

You can always get to my resume from the header here, or via this [short
link][cv]. I'm open to a bunch of things, just no [kick boxing][kb].  Let's
have coffee/drink or take a walk.

  [cv]: http://bit.ly/sef-resume
  [wf]: http://www.wavefront.com/
  [email]: mailto:sefklon@gmail.com
  [sab]: /posts/201204my-sabbatical.html
  [ed]: /posts/201207on-line-education.html
  [aws]: /posts/aws.html
  [kb]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VEgu7jdc_fs
